*Communication:* Emphasis on face-to-face communication, but it’s also important to have things written down. Communication also facilitates feedback. Feature testing is a fantastic way to ensure everyone is on the same page.


*Simplicity:* Do the simplest thing that could possibly work - do everything as simply as possible. Make sure everything is understandable. Think about your code communicating intent (clarity and self-documentation). No duplication wherever possible. This should in theory lead to code that is easily changeable. Keep to your MVP (and don’t get too clever early on.)


*Courage:* Don’t worry about future problems - have the courage to put everything except the immediate problems aside and code for today, not tomorrow. Do not be precious about your code; have the courage to throw your code out and redesign. Keep forging ahead and confronting things head-on. Have the courage to be honest about deadlines, feasibility and the state of your application. Be persistent and stick with things. Courage has a central role in feedback.

*Feedback:* 3 levels - Pair programming, swapping pairs - every programmer has the same understanding of all parts of the code, and the same level of confidence. Everyone is checking everyone’s code at all times. TDD - writing unit tests so that you can be sure your code is clean and works. Continuous Integration - as soon as a feature is finished, it’s released to the wild for people to test and the customer to see. The planning game is an exercise where each week the customer and team receive end user feedback to implement directly back into the design cycle. Be courageous and consistenly ask for and give feedback.

*Respect:* NOT to be confused with RSpec. Every member of the team must care about the project itself - if there’s no passion for the project, you’re not giving full respect to the project. Kindness, patience and humility - the best developers have the humility to recognise that they don’t know everything. Everyone involved (even customers :p) have their own area of expertise. Everyone brings value and it’s important to recognise that. Sometimes it’s more important to maintain the relationships, than to be right. Respect underlies all other values of XP.
